---
title: "Upgrading from v3.x to v4.x"
description: "Instructions for upgrading from v3.x to v4.x of the app-template chart"
---

Migrating from v3.x to v4.x introduces a number of breaking changes. Additionally, the minimum required Kubernetes version has been increased to version **1.28.x**.

## Resource names

A new and consistent resource naming scheme has been implemented throughout the chart.

:::note
Resource names are controlled by `forceRename`, `prefix`, and `suffix` fields. See the [Values Reference](../../reference/) for details on each resource type.
:::

This change may lead to generated resources getting new names, causing resources with the old naming scheme to be removed.

:::caution
**IMPORTANT** As with any major software version upgrade, please verify that you have a working backup of your data.
:::

## serviceAccounts

### Tokens

When creating a serviceAccount in v3, this would always also create a Secret containing a static long-lived Service Account token. Nowadays it is preferable to use short-lived tokens and have Kubernetes manage them automatically.

If a static long-lived token is still required for a serviceAccount, this can be configured by setting the `staticToken` key of the serviceAccount to `true`.

### Creation

The syntax for creating service accounts has changed. Instead of configuring a `default` serviceAccount and optional `extraServiceAccounts` the syntax has been brought in line with other resources:

```yaml
serviceAccount:
  myServiceAccount: {}
  mySecondServiceAccount:
    staticToken: true
  myThirdServiceAccount:
    enabled: false

controllers:
  main:
    serviceAccount:
      identifier: myServiceAccount
```

## Controller labels

The hardcoded `app.kubernetes.io/component` label that is used to target specific controllers has been renamed to `app.kubernetes.io/controller`.

:::note
Because controller labels are considered immutable by Kubernetes existing Deployments / StatefulSets / etc will have to be recreated.
:::
